---
layout: post
title:  "Welcome to my blog"
author: Perchema
---

For a while now, I've wanted to create my own webpage, where people can find
information about me. Also I've wanted to have a place to share ideas with the
Internet about things, I find interesting. And so I created this.

###Who am I ?
I'm Alexander Crustev a.k.a "Perchema", a guy who loves computers and 
programming. I have most experience in solving algorithmic problems (mainly in
c++), developing video games (at least trying to), and creating web apps. I
like the idea of Open source, so I have put some of my projects (the newer 
ones) on [Github][gh-prof]. You can find out more on the [About][about] page.

###How's this website made ?
Well, I said that I want to share interesting things with the Internet. The
technologies I've used to create this are quite cool, allowing me to create
this website **completely free**. Yes it has a few limitations, but they aren't
a problem for the website I currently want.

####Github Pages
[Github Pages][gh-pages] allows you to host static websites (i.e. without any
server-side scripting like php, python, or node) for free. You can create an
user/organisation website by creating a repo named *<user/organisation
name>.github.io*, or a project one by adding a *gh-pages* branch. Since this
is a personal website I'm using the first option. I am using Github Pages,
because I find it more reliable than other free hosting services.

####Jekyll
[Jekyll][jekyll] is a simle static site generator. You may have noticed when
I've said, that Github Pages allows only static websites, but I have a blog,
which isn't static. Well, Jekyll allows you to work with templates and markup
languages (e.g. HTML or Markdown) and then converts them to a static website.
Jekyll is officially supported by Github and they even create the static website
for you !!! (So instead of having your source in one place and the generated
website in Github, you just upload the jekyll project to the corresponding
repository and the folks at Github handle the static website for you).

####Dot.tk
[Dot.tk][dot-tk] is a service, that provides free domains. Why are they free?
There are some places in the world, which most people haven't ever heard of 
(like Tokelau \*wink\*), but have their own country code domain name for some
reason. They give their domains for free, so more people learn about their
existence. When you create a *.tk* domain and  you're asked where you want it to
point, you have to give one of Github ips, listed [here][gh-ips]. To let Github
know about your custom domain, add a *CNAME* file to the root of your repository
with your desired domain name. (more info [here][gh-cname]).

###Conclusion
If you have the skill, needed to create a website from scratch (HTML, CSS) and 
want a simple solution, I recomemnd using [Github Pages][gh-pages]. It won't do
if you want something more complex (e.g. registration / users) or if you want 
something, that scales, but it's perfect for developer / project websites. If 
you're interested, you can look at the [source code][gh-repo] for this website.

[gh-prof]:  https://github.com/Alaxe
[gh-pages]: https://pages.github.com/
[jekyll]:   https://jekyllrb.com/
[dot-tk]:   http://dot.tk
[gh-ips]:   https://help.github.com/articles/tips-for-configuring-an-a-record-with-your-dns-provider/#configuring-an-a-record-with-your-dns-provider
[gh-cname]: https://help.github.com/articles/adding-a-cname-file-to-your-repository/
[gh-repo]:  https://github.com/Alaxe/alaxe.github.io
[about]:    /about/
